# Beach-Buggy-J-S-Kalita
https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100062982263301

The J & S Beach Buggy.
Best-known for its catamarans, the Sydney firm of J &
S Fibreglass didn’t build more kits, bodies and hardtops than anyone else in the specialist-car business. But it’s doubtful whether anyone else has built a greater range of car kits, bodies and hardtops than they.
It began in the mid 1950s when teenagers John Jennens
and Jeff Simmonds decided to build a special. They used
1939 Ford V8 mechanicals including engine, gearbox, chassis and suspension. More influentially, they also made their own fibreglass body for the special. Fibreglass in those days was a relatively new material, and still newsworthy enough to attract a report on the special in WHEELS June 1958 as recognition of the youngsters’ effort. What followed was inevitable - Jennens and Simmonds founded J & S and went into the fibreglass car body business.
Jennens subsequently dropped out of the firm but Simmonds hung in there and steadily built the firm into a
solid position, especially after switching to boat production in the early ’70s. He says this was the smartest thing he ever did, because specialist cars had become more trouble than they were worth. Things might have been different had the Hunter project realised its full potential. 
This chapter began in 1959 when J & S revealed it was working on a new project, a complete car using mainly Holden mechanical parts. But it wasn’t until 1961 the Hunter became a fact. The car had taken much longer than anticipated to develop to a saleable stage, and then the economic recession of the early ’60s nearly wiped the whole thing out anyway. So its eventual arrival was
almost an anti-climax. Had it reached the market a couple of years earlier the car might well have been very successful because it clearly had the makings.
Still, the Hunter stirred interest wherever it was seen,
and had to be the best possible advertisement for the kit. J & S took a steady flow of orders and by the mid ’60s the Hunter’s production tally stood at 25. But it added no more to the score before going the way of so many of its kind.
But J & S also built a number of other special conversions and kit cars. The list includes the ex-Buchanan conversion body. J & S took over production of that famous body in 1959 and made a further 45 examples (taking the
overall total to about 150) before discontinuing it. 
An adaption of the neat little Renault-based sportster designed by Len Moir was also put into production. About 20 were made. Then there were bolt-on hardtops for most of the popular open sports models, and a couple of permanent fixedtop conversions to turn roadsters into coupes. In all J & S produced no less than 17 different hardtops. They sold in considerable, but seemingly uncounted numbers. 
But it is for its beach buggy that J & S is best
remembered. Beach buggies are open fibreglass bodies sitting on shortened VW Beetle chassis, as pioneered by Bruce Meyers in the US with his famous Manx buggy. A number of local companies made copies of the Manx, in varying levels of quality, but not J & S. They designed their own.
In the late ’60s the firm made its first beach buggy
design with a new model dubbed the Fun Buggy. It became one of the most successful cars of its kind in Australia. Owing not a single line of its body to the Meyers Manx model that sparked off the whole buggy rage, the Fun Buggy belonged to the same school with simple, functional and pleasantly attractive lines. It had the usual door-less buggy entry and exit problem of course, especially with a soft-top or hardtop aboard, but it must have had something going for it. Fun Buggy sales passed the 190 mark before most States outlawed shortened VW chassis in the early 1970s, effectively killing off the buggy market.
A few years before the registration restrictions came
into force J & S introduced another version which was
probably one of the best looking, and certainly one of the best designed buggies ever. Known as the Trail Buggy, the car used the same VW running gear and shortened chassis that had become the standard specification for virtually all street buggies. The Trail Buggy’s body, however, was anything but standard. With swoopy guards, deep windscreen, integral roll-over bar, soft ‘Targa’ top and no doors, the body style was a cross between buggy and sports car.
The Trail Buggy differed from usual buggy practice in a
few other ways, too. The shortened chassis was reinforced by the V-braced roll bar and by a large tube running the length of each side from front to rear. Apart from precluding any possibility of the shortened chassis being structurally suspect, the reinforcement in fact improved side impact protection. Unlike ordinary buggies, the Trail model didn’t retain the Volkswagen front-mounted fuel tank but instead relocated the tank on the passenger’s side of the chassis, next to and above the forward-facing transaxle. While optimising tank protection in event of a bingle, the revised location meant that instead of a full-width rear bench, the Trail Buggy’s cockpit had a bulge on the nearside (covering the tank) and only oneand-a-half-seater space behind the driver’s bucket; enough for
two kids or perhaps a supple adult, or some luggage.
J & S sold almost 40 Trail Buggy body kits before the
registration problems closed in. 
Another firm took over the moulds with a view to re-introducing the Trail model but it too found the registration requirements too tough, as did yet another hopeful who pirated the body (took moulds from a J & S body) and modified it slightly with the aim of producing it under a different name.
The demise of the Trail Buggy marked the virtual end
of J & S’s long-held interest in the specialist car field.
However the J & S name continues on in other fibreglassrelated fields, especially boat-building and nautical hardware.
Mike McCarthy




  · 
HI. you asked how much is its value ? well priceless, How much do they cost? Theres objective and subjective price, subjective price can be anything, lol, but have seen them from $8000- $25,000 in australia over 2015-2020. I owned the J&S Kalita twice back in the early 80s, I paid $3000 then $5000 for it, but it still had a long repair list.
Objectively, the value is whats built into the buggy, lets take the car apart, it has an old vw pan, cut and overlap welding. Rust and such are a problems, must be checked. Also theres a reinforced box section chassis steel tube running the perimeter of the pan for strength, this platform carries the standard and mandatory single roll over bar, and also the bolted and welded points for the front bumper and engine bumper or cage (optional). Some are better upgraded with a ¾ cage connected to the pan with stronger weld/bolted points and also run around the window frame. So you get better protection but some more weight. Next upgrade is to disk brakes, but the drums are ok, the car is light, just make sure all the slaves and master is new or resleeved and all plumbing is copper, by now the metal pipes and tubes are shot. Adjust the shoes for correct gap. The gearbox needs a harness is a must to stop the motor twisting the gearbox too much. Also twin port head engine is preferable so you can run down draft webbers or such. 40mm is best, don't go oversize. Also cooling is critical on air cooled engine. The air cooling has been compromised by placing into buggy, the air flow path has been compromised causing hot air to circulate back into the blower box and this is not good. Try and drawing fresh cool air from above or from the sides away from hot underdraft. The electricals may need updating but its a bet most has been reused as many were 6v, mine was for a while then went 12v, but you still could still use some of the 6v parts. The was either a dc generator in 6v or 12v (keep 12 as you can drive around without a battery so you have to push start unless you put in a supercapacitor etc) or an 12v alternator ( better).  The engines have been babies upto 2200 stokers, but in my needs  needs to be at least 1500cc but it will run with any size as the whole setup is very light,  mine started with 1100 then i swapped to 1500 single port as they were very cheap. Also the dizzy or 4 point distributor with vacuum advance are probably clapped out and unreliable so swap in a good mechanical dizzy with pointless gaps as in transistor switching. Because is very easy to rev out the motor put 4 more pins in the flywheel (8 total) and shave a little not more off it to lighten it, as run the risk of ripping the flywheel off with aggressive revving and dropping the clutch. You can also shave a little off the heads say around 50 to up the compression and add more power, but its better to up the cc rather than do this,  also put a more aggressive cam in it but not so much it cant idle. Move the tank to front for more ballast weight to keep the front down if you can, as its too light at the front. The J&S put the tank box behind driver as standard which is ok, if you add a crash bar in the front you can opt for a light bull bar for some weight. The body looks better with the targa top molding on as well as the side molds which are between the sides wheels. People have left these off for some reason, but are very much part of the original shape and DNA. For the frog eyes do not drive with just high beams bolt ons make sure you have proper low beams, its an easy swap out to just add high beams, so make sure you have proper high and lows. Many do this but don’t go over size on the rear wheel diameter to make it look better, it wont as it kills acceleration and messes with the gearing. If you want to lift it then lift it with camber issues or but a combi gearbox that overcomes the camber issue. Even more fancy is removing the reductions gears off the shaft of the combi gear box and flipping the engine and gearbox around to make it mid engine but that deviates from the vw pan and setup needing a lot of work. Also cut the shift stick down so you can really yank it with shorter throws, put stainless thicker clutch cable and make a small access port on side so you get to it easy to put the hook on. Also good bucket seats that are bolted in not just thrown in. Also renew the old vyna tarp, make a new one and make the style nicer and adds value. Shape the see thru windows, contour it to make it like spider man's eyes. You can really design your own style. The fiberglass body lasts almost forever so long as a good layer of paint is on. 
I have a plans to 3d scan the body and share it out so future generations can remake it and enjoy this Australian history. Stephen Justin
